---
title: yield curve
tags: 
---

A curve that connects the points corresponding to the remaining years and final yields of each bond to the coordinates of the bond's remaining years (remaining term) on the horizontal axis and the final yield on the vertical axis. Yield does not represent the movement of a single bond, but rather a group of bonds with different remaining maturities within the same bond type, expressed in the form of a single curve. For example, discount government bonds have multiple bonds (products) with different remaining maturities, and these multiple bonds are drawn on a single yield curve. In addition to being used to compare the characteristics of different types of bonds, the curve is also used to analyze the yield (interest rate) differentials created by longer and shorter maturities, or in other words, the "term structure of interest rates. Normally, long-term interest rates are higher than short-term interest rates, and the yield curve is an upward curve. This condition is called "forward yield. The quantitative and qualitative monetary easing policy introduced by the Bank of Japan in April 2013 aimed to stimulate the economy by pushing down the overall yield curve and lowering not only short-term interest rates but also medium- and long-term interest rates. One of the goals was to stimulate the economy by pushing down the overall yield curve and lowering not only short-term interest rates but also medium- and long-term interest rates. In September 2016, the BOJ introduced a long- and short-term interest rate control (yield curve control), applying a negative interest rate of -0.1% to the policy rate balance in the BOJ's current account for short-term interest rates, and purchasing long-term JGBs so that the 10-year JGB rate would remain roughly at zero percent for the long-term interest rate. The Bank of Japan will also purchase long-term JGBs so that the 10-year JGB interest rate will generally remain at around zero percent.

## Source
https://www.daiwa.jp/glossary/YST0048.html